Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programing language is any set of rules that converts stings, or graphical program elements in the case of visual
programming languages, to various kinds of machine code output.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK is made up of JRE, JVM, Java, javac, javadoc, and jar.
JRE is Java Runtime Environment
JVM is the Java Virtual Machine
Java is an interpreter
javac is a compiler
javadoc is a document generator
jar is an archiver




What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer
   programmers for software development. It consists of a source code editor, build automation tools and a
   debugger.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, BlueJ, DrJava, jCreator, and Greenfoot.



Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. The java life cycle is made up of three parts; editing the program, compiling the source code,
and executing the byte code.

What is class?
A. A class is a template used to create objects and to define object
data types and methods.


What is object?
A. It is an instance of a Java class


What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main() method is the entry point of a Java application


Why main is static?
A. Java main() method is always static because then the compiler class can call it without
the creation of an object of the class.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. the Object class


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac which are used
to compile code while classpath is used by system or application class loader to
locate and load compiled java bytecodes stored in the class file.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. An interface only allows you to define functionality not implement it while an
abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If not how do you use it ?
A.


what is Access Specifier?



What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.




What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?



What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.



Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?



What is method overloading and when it happens?



Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.



What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?



What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?




What is final, finally and finalize?




What is a constructor ?




Can we have multiple constructors in a class?




If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?




What is "this" keyword in java ?




What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?




What is JVM stand for ?




Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









